Crohn’s disease and ulcerative colitis are both
types of inflammatory bowel disease.
They share some symptoms
but affect different areas of the digestive tract.
In Crohn’s disease any part of the digestive tract
can be affected, but it most commonly affects the
end of the small intestine and the beginning of the large intestine.
Inflammation can be continuous or may be patchy.
It often spreads into deeper layers of the bowel wall.
Crohn’s disease can cause diarrhea,
abdominal pain, fatigue, weight loss and malnutrition.
Symptoms vary between people.
Some people may experience only mild or occasional symptoms
and for some it can be very painful
and sometimes may lead to life-threatening complications.
There is no cure for Crohn’s disease,
but treatment can reduce its signs and symptoms.
Ulcerative colitis causes inflammation and sores
in just the lining of the large intestine and rectum.
The inflammation is usually uniform and continuous.
Symptoms of ulcerative colitis include diarrhea,
often with blood or mucus,
rectal bleeding, abdominal cramps and pain,
fatigue, and stool urgency.
Most people with ulcerative colitis have mild to moderate symptoms
and some have periods of remission.
Ulcerative colitis can be debilitating and sometimes
may lead to life-threatening complications.
There is no cure for ulcerative colitis,
but treatment can reduce its signs and symptoms
and offer long-term remission.